WE (The National University of Ireland Maynooth, Maynooth, Ireland (NUIM) and the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology, 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, U.S.A. (MIT)) ARE 
WILLING TO LICENSE THIS SOFTWARE TO YOU (a licensee "You") ONLY ON THE CONDITION THAT YOU ACCEPT 
ALL OF THE TERMS CONTAINED IN THE FOLLOWING AGREEMENT. PLEASE READ THE AGREEMENT CAREFULLY BEFORE 
DOWNLOADING THE SOFTWARE. BY EXERCISING THE OPTION TO DOWNLOAD THE SOFTWARE YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND 
BY THE TERMS OF THE AGREEMENT.

SOFTWARE AND PATENT LICENSE AGREEMENT

1. Grant

This Agreement pertains to:

(a) a worldwide, non-exclusive, temporary, fully paid-up, royalty free, non-transferable, 
non-sub-licensable copyright license (the "License") to use the Kintinuous source code, including 
any modification, part or derivative (the "Software").

(b) a worldwide, non-exclusive, temporary, fully paid-up, royalty free, non-transferable, 
non-sub-licensable patent license (the "Patent License") to use the Kintinuous patent, including 
any modification, part or derivative (the "Patent").

Ownership and License. Your rights to use and download the Software onto your computer, and all 
other copies that You are authorised to make, are specified in this Agreement. However, we (or our 
licensors) retain all rights, including but not limited to all copyright and other intellectual 
property rights anywhere in the world, in the Software and the Patent not expressly granted to You 
in this Agreement.

Contributions. You may make contributions to the Software however NUIM and MIT are under no 
obligation to accept any contribution you make whether intentionally or unintentionally submitted.

2. Permitted use of the License:

(a) You may download and install the Software onto one computer or server for use in accordance 
with Clause 2(b) of this Agreement provided that You ensure that the Software is not accessible by 
other users unless they have themselves accepted the terms of this license agreement.

(b) You may use the Software solely for non-commercial, internal or academic research purposes and 
only in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. You may not use the Software for commercial 
purposes, including but not limited to (1) integration of all or part of the source code or the 
Software or the Patent into a product for sale or license by or on behalf of You to third parties 
or (2) use of the Software or of the Patent or any derivative of it for research to develop 
software products for sale or license to a third party or (3) use of the Software or of the Patent 
or any derivative of it for research to develop non-software products for sale or license to a 
third party, or (4) use of the Software or the Patent to provide any service to an external 
organisation for which payment is received.

Should You wish to use the Software for commercial purposes, You should email: 
commercialisation@nuim.ie.

(c) Right to Copy. You may copy the Software for back-up and archival purposes, provided that each 
copy is kept in your possession and provided You reproduce our copyright notice (set out in 
Schedule 1) on each copy.

(d) Transfer and sub-licensing. You may not rent, lend, or lease the Software or the Patent and You 
may not transmit, transfer or sub-license this license to use the Software or the Patent or any of 
your rights or obligations under this Agreement to another party.

(e) Identity of Licensee. The license granted herein is personal to You. You shall not permit any 
third party to access, modify or otherwise use the Software nor shall You access modify or 
otherwise use the Software on behalf of any third party. If You wish to obtain a license for 
multiple users or a site license for the Software please contact us at: commercialisation@nuim.ie.

(f) Publications and presentations. You may make public, results or data obtained from, dependent 
on or arising from research carried out using the Software or the Patent, provided that any such 
presentation or publication identifies the Software or the Patent as the source of the results or 
the data, including the Copyright Notice given in each element of the Software, and stating that 
the Software and the Patent has been made available for use by You under license from NUIM and MIT 
and You provide a copy of any such publication to NUIM and MIT.

3. Prohibited Uses.

You may not, without written permission from us at commercialisation@nuim.ie:

(a) Use, copy, modify, merge, or transfer copies of the Software or any documentation provided by 
us which relates to the Software except as provided in this Agreement;

(b) Use any back-up or archival copies of the Software (or allow anyone else to use such copies) 
for any purpose other than to replace the original copy in the event it is destroyed or becomes 
defective; or

(c) Disassemble, decompile or "unlock", reverse translate, or in any manner decode the Software for 
any reason.

4. Warranty Disclaimer

(a) Disclaimer. The Software has been developed for research purposes only. You acknowledge that we 
are providing the Software to You 'as-is' under this license agreement free of charge and on 
condition that the disclaimer set out below shall apply. We do not represent or warrant that the 
Software as to: (i) the quality, accuracy or reliability of the Software; (ii) the suitability of 
the Software for any particular use or for use under any specific conditions; and (iii) whether use 
of the Software or the Patent will infringe third-party rights.

You acknowledge that You have reviewed and evaluated the Software to determine that it meets your 
needs and that You assume all responsibility and liability for determining the suitability of the 
Software as fit for your particular purposes and requirements. Subject to Clause 4(b), we exclude 
and expressly disclaim all express and implied representations, warranties, conditions and terms 
not stated herein (including the implied conditions or warranties of satisfactory quality, 
merchantable quality, merchantability and fitness for purpose).

(b) Savings. Some jurisdictions may imply warranties, conditions or terms or impose obligations 
upon us which cannot, in whole or in part, be excluded, restricted or modified or otherwise do not 
allow the exclusion of implied warranties, conditions or terms, in which case the above warranty 
disclaimer and exclusion will only apply to You to the extent permitted in the relevant 
jurisdiction and does not in any event exclude any implied warranties, conditions or terms which 
may not under applicable law be excluded.

(c) Both NUIM and MIT disclaim all responsibility for the use which is made of the Software and any 
liability for the outcomes arising from using the Software.

5. Limitation of Liability

(a) You acknowledge that we are providing the Software and the Patent to You under this license 
agreement free of charge and on condition that the limitation of liability set out below shall 
apply. Accordingly, subject to Clause 5(b), we exclude all liability whether in contract, tort, 
negligence or otherwise, in respect of the Software and/or any related documentation provided to 
You by us including, but not limited to, liability for loss or corruption of data, loss of 
contracts, loss of income, loss of profits, loss of cover and any consequential or indirect loss or 
damage of any kind arising out of or in connection with this license agreement, however caused. 
This exclusion shall apply even if we have been advised of the possibility of such loss or damage.

(b) You agree to indemnify NUIM and MIT and hold them harmless from and against any and all claims, 
damages and liabilities asserted by third parties (including claims for negligence) which arise 
directly or indirectly from the use of the Software or any derivative of it or the sale of any 
products based on the Software. You undertake to make no liability claim against any employee, 
student, agent or appointee of NUIM or MIT, in connection with this License or the Software or the 
Patent.

(c) Nothing in this Agreement shall have the effect of excluding or limiting our statutory 
liability.

(d) Some jurisdictions do not allow these limitations or exclusions either wholly or in part, and, 
to that extent, they may not apply to you. Nothing in this license agreement will affect your 
statutory rights or other relevant statutory provisions which cannot be excluded, restricted or 
modified, and its terms and conditions must be read and construed subject to any such statutory 
rights and/or provisions.

6. Confidentiality. You agree not to disclose any confidential information provided to You by us 
pursuant to this Agreement to any third party without our prior written consent. The obligations in 
this Clause 6 shall survive the termination of this Agreement for any reason.

7. Termination.

(a) We may terminate this license agreement and your right to use the Software and the Patent at 
any time with immediate effect upon written notice to You.

(b) This license agreement and your right to use the Software or the Patent automatically terminate 
if You:

(i) fail to comply with any provisions of this Agreement; or

(ii) destroy the copies of the Software in your possession, or voluntarily return the Software to 
us.

(iii) institute patent litigation against NUIM or MIT (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a 
lawsuit) alleging that the Software or the Patent constitutes direct or contributory patent 
infringement.

(c) Upon termination You will destroy all copies of the Software.

(d) Otherwise, the restrictions on your rights to use the Software and the Patent will expire 10 
(ten) years after first use of the Software or the Patent under this license agreement.

8. Export Control.

You agree to comply with all United States and European export control laws and regulations 
controlling the export of the Software, including, without limitation, all Export Administration 
Regulations of the United States Department of Commerce. Among other things, these laws and 
regulations prohibit, or require a license for, the export of certain types of software to 
specified countries.

9. Miscellaneous Provisions.

(a) This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the substantive laws of the 
Republic of Ireland whose courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction over all disputes which may 
arise between us.

(b) This is the entire agreement between us relating to the Software, and supersedes any prior 
purchase order, communications, advertising or representations concerning the Software.

(c) No change or modification of this Agreement will be valid unless it is in writing, and is 
signed by us.

(d) The unenforceability or invalidity of any part of this Agreement will not affect the 
enforceability or validity of the remaining parts.

Schedule 1

The Software

Kintinuous is a real-time dense visual SLAM system capable of producing high quality globally 
consistent point and mesh reconstructions over hundreds of metres in real-time with only a low-cost 
commodity RGB-D sensor.  It is based on the techniques described in the following publications:

    Real-time Large Scale Dense RGB-D SLAM with Volumetric Fusion, T. Whelan, M. Kaess, H. 
Johannsson, M.F. Fallon, J. J. Leonard and J.B. McDonald, IJRR '14
    Deformation-based Loop Closure for Large Scale Dense RGB-D SLAM, T. Whelan, M. Kaess, J.J. 
Leonard, and J.B. McDonald, IROS '13
    Robust Real-Time Visual Odometry for Dense RGB-D Mapping, T. Whelan, H. Johannsson, M. Kaess, 
J.J. Leonard, and J.B. McDonald, ICRA '13
    Kintinuous: Spatially Extended KinectFusion, T. Whelan, M. Kaess, M.F. Fallon, H. Johannsson, 
J. J. Leonard and J.B. McDonald, RSS RGB-D Workshop '12
    A method and system for mapping an environment, T. Whelan, M. Kaess, J.J. Leonard and J.B. 
McDonald, PCT/EP2014/058079, WO/2014/202258. Filed 22/04/2014, published 24/12/2014

The Patent

The Kintinuous Software embodies technology for which patent protection has been applied for see 
https://patentscope.wipo.int/search/en/detail.jsf?docId=WO2014202258.

Copyright Notice

This file is part of Kintinuous.

Copyright (C) 2015 The National University of Ireland Maynooth and Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology

The use of the code within this file and all code within files that make up the software that is 
Kintinuous is permitted for non-commercial purposes only.  The full terms and conditions that apply 
to the code within this file are detailed within the LICENSE.txt file and at 
<http://www.cs.nuim.ie/research/vision/data/kintinuous/code.php> unless explicitly stated.  By 
downloading this file you agree to comply with these terms.

If you wish to use any of this code for commercial purposes then please email 
commercialisation@nuim.ie.

Acknowledgements

If You use the Software or the Patent then You should reference the following papers in any 
publication:

    Real-time Large Scale Dense RGB-D SLAM with Volumetric Fusion, T. Whelan, M. Kaess, H. 
Johannsson, M.F. Fallon, J. J. Leonard and J.B. McDonald, IJRR '14
    Deformation-based Loop Closure for Large Scale Dense RGB-D SLAM, T. Whelan, M. Kaess, J.J. 
Leonard, and J.B. McDonald, IROS '13
    Robust Real-Time Visual Odometry for Dense RGB-D Mapping, T. Whelan, H. Johannsson, M. Kaess, 
J.J. Leonard, and J.B. McDonald, ICRA '13
    Kintinuous: Spatially Extended KinectFusion, T. Whelan, M. Kaess, M.F. Fallon, H. Johannsson, 
J. J. Leonard and J.B. McDonald, RSS RGB-D Workshop '12
    A method and system for mapping an environment, T. Whelan, M. Kaess, J.J. Leonard and J.B. 
McDonald, PCT/EP2014/058079, WO/2014/202258. Filed 22/04/2014, published 24/12/2014
